# So you're devrel curious 
If you asked 5 developer-advocados to define their profession, you would get at
least 12 different answers, and at least 27 of those would be mutually
exclusive to the other 106. So if you're looking for a place to ask devrel
people about devrel, maybe don't. 

Instead, imagine for a moment that you've created a legitimately, objectively
fantastic unicorn of a productivity tool for people who make software. Using
your tool, people who normally spend 4 hours doing a thing, can do the same
thing in 30 seconds, and teams working together with your tool save even more
time such that it literally takes negative amounts of time to complete the task
utterly destroying the laws of space-time. 5 people who began doing a thing
with your tool right now would literally be done yesterday.

Your tool could substantially improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of
tech-workers, while boosting the productivity of the business world by orders
of magnitude... 

except...

... It's kind of mathy, and difficult to understand, even for math-nerds and
computer programmers. In fact, starting from scratch, it takes a typical
engineer about 2 hours to learn to use your tool. 

## So how do you get engineers to use it?

You might think to yourself _hey, my tool is so amazing, it will go viral_, so
you throw it on hackernews and wait for the money to roll in. This will
backfire because hackernews is a hive of scum and villainy. Not only will they
not listen to reason; they will actually hate you _because you made something_.
At best they will mock your tool, curse you for a liar, and then go back to
ignoring you and hating other things. More likely, they will decide your tool
is an overt attempt by fabian communists to destroy freedom, and that it
represents a real and profound threat to not only individual liberty, but also
the sacred block-chain panacea of economic inevitability. In the end you'll sign
up 150 or so communists before being doxxed into oblivion. The problem here is
that you can't just show up out of the blue with some shiny new tool
proclaiming it's the final and ultimate solution to X and expect to be taken
seriously (even if your thing ACTUALLY IS the final ultimate solution to X)

You might think to yourself that you need a sales strategy, so you hire a
director of marketing who recruits a sales team from among his old fraternity
brothers. Your sales manager will proceed spend a LOT of money on a billboard,
and then even more incentivizing his college buddies to do extremely
questionable things like cold-calling tech companies, pouncing on people like
jungle cats from the shadow of a booth at tech conferences, and "wining and
dining" corrupt VP's who will force their underlings to use your tool. You
*will* make money this way, but you'll have to hang out with frat boys, and it
will never feel feel right to foisting your tool upon good people who didn't
want it. The problem here is that you can't "sell" something you don't
understand to engineers, anymore than you can "sell" lettuce to alligators.
Engineers and alligators have a pretty good idea of what they want already, so
if your thing doesn't look like that, you're going to need to be REALLY good at
explaining why.

You might think to yourself pre-sales engineers are the way to go since they
deal with the engineers directly, so you work with consultancy shops whose
surreptitious goal is to infect with your tool those companies large enough to
be able to afford engineering consultancy services. Your well-trained
pre-sales engineers, to the tune of the flight of the Valkyries will then
deftly parachute down into the server-rooms of unsuspecting corporations,
installing your tool all over their bare-metal blade servers before
disappearing like ninjitsu into a puff of smoke, leaving in their wake
literally hundreds of thousands of confounded bizdev programmers in business
casual kaki-slacks, none of whom know how to operate their own computers
anymore, and all of whom will immediately reformat your shit off their
hard-drives and complain about you on twitter while lying to their managers
about the tool still being installed. The problem here is that consultants
always try to fix cultural problems with tools, thereby giving the tools a bad
name. Unless they're culture-consultants, in which case they mostly just fire
people.

## Engineers react to authenticity and nothing else

Here's the thing -- and I grant you this is a hard truth to accept -- no matter
how good your product is, no matter how many in-the-trenches people it could
help, no matter how good your intentions, you can't go from zero to adoption in
today's tech market without doing inhuman things and becoming in the process a
blood-sucking, soul-devouring demon. Literally the harder you try to directly
make engineers use your product, the more you will merely damage your own
reputation.  It is a linear relationship.  If you don't believe me, ask Elon
Musk.

The reality today is that adoption takes investment. It takes investment in
community to build actual, beneficial rapport with your prospective customer
base. It takes investment in positive awareness efforts so that people who have
the problem you're trying to solve will organically discover you, and consider
you as a prospective solution.  It takes investment in the open-source
solar-system that orbits the problem you are trying to solve, so that there are
pathways from free tools to your tool AND VICE VERSA.

Making those investments is not only technically complex, but human-factors
complex. To make those investments correctly, you need people who understand
the process of software and operations engineering, and empathize with the
needs of the people who need your tool. You need programmers who can contribute
and maintain open source projects that relate to your tool. You need tech-savvy
storytellers who can translate your engineering endeavors into a story that can
be told at the podium at engineering conferences, and in an engaging way on tech
blogs, where the people who are interested in the process of engineering will
find you and evangelize for you within their organizations. 

Speaking of organization, you need community builders who can organize meetups,
and hackathons -- who can nurture and grow your user community while managing
poisonous personalities and human conflicts -- who can guide you in the savvy
sponsorship of community events -- who can _constantly work_ to keep your
social media and marketing voice authentic and human. 

Finally, you need people to write quickstart apps, develop libraries and
ESPECIALLY to illicit and capture feedback from real, in-the-trenches engineers
who are trying to use your product, to make it as easy as possible for everyone
who tries your product to have a successful experience.

## Yep, that's pretty much devrel

Like a good psychic cold-read, every dev-advocate exists within the paragraphs
I've written above and yet no two are alike. Some are world-class programmers
and others wouldn't know assembly from Haskell. Some have degrees in conflict
resolution and others dropped out of high school. The one thing they share is
the ability to recognize the particular ways in which a given tech company is
failing to reach its intended audience, and formulate a plan to rectify those
shortcomings through some combination of community outreach, documentation
efforts and code-writing.

Anyway, that's pretty much the job. If you've gotten this far and you're still
glad you asked, DevRel is probably for you, and bonus, it's a great time to to
be looking for DevRel opportunities! Below you'll find links to more reading
and resources to help you join us in our awesome but somewhat confusing
endeavors. 

Welcome aboard!
